Strategic UI/UX Architecture Redesign: Transitioning Enterprise CRM to an Airy, High-Productivity Paradigm
1. The Architectural Philosophy of Calm Technology
The modern enterprise application landscape is undergoing a profound structural shift. For years, the prevailing aesthetic for high-utility, data-dense applications—such as trading terminals, development environments, and high-frequency retail arbitrage automation utilities—has been deeply rooted in dark mode, high-contrast visual languages. The existing architectural baseline of the Vinted HQ application currently embodies this exact paradigm. It utilizes a deep navy background (#080b12), stark white text (#e8ecf4), and neon indigo accents (#818cf8) across its Electron/React renderer.1 While this high-contrast, dark-mode approach effectively reduces immediate glare in low-light environments, long-term exposure in data-heavy customer relationship management (CRM) and e-commerce productivity contexts frequently induces cognitive fatigue. The visual weight of dark interfaces can make dense data tables, rapid feed polling readouts, and complex configuration forms feel claustrophobic and overwhelming.
The mandate for a complete redesign dictates a transition toward a "nice, open, and airy feeling" user interface (UI) grounded in the white/off-white spectrum, characterized by nicely rounded corners, high contrast, and clear typography. This transition represents a fundamental pivot toward the principles of "Calm Technology" and minimalist enterprise design.2 In an application orchestrating complex background tasks—where users must process rapid API data feeds from the Python Bridge, configure stealth search URLs, manage residential proxy rotations, and monitor multi-step checkout state machines—the interface itself must recede into the background. The design must facilitate focus, organization, and speed, actively mitigating the visual clutter inherent in forms featuring extensive parameters.
By adopting an airy, minimalist approach, the application leverages cognitive psychology principles to reduce the mental effort required to parse information.3 Minimalism in contemporary enterprise architecture is no longer defined by barren screens or the removal of functionality; rather, it is defined by the intentional reduction of visual noise to surface only what is critical for task completion at the exact right moment.3 This comprehensive architectural report details the theoretical framework, the programmatic component-level translation strategy, and the precise technical implementation required to execute this redesign within the Vinted HQ Electron/React monorepo. Particular focus is placed on integrating advanced "Liquid Glass" rendering techniques via CSS and SVG filters to maintain a premium, modern feel without sacrificing runtime performance.
2. Analysis of Paradigm-Defining Interface References
The reference images provided establish a definitive visual target for the Vinted HQ redesign. By deconstructing these interfaces, specific structural and aesthetic patterns emerge that define the 2026 standard for high-productivity enterprise CRM and utility applications.
Deconstructing the Reference Interfaces
1. Image 1 (E-commerce Aggregation): This interface demonstrates a masterclass in handling high-density product feeds without inducing clutter. The background is a stark, clean white, allowing the product photography to serve as the primary visual anchor. The item cards utilize substantial border radiuses (approximately 16px to 20px) with very faint, 1px solid gray borders (rgba(0,0,0,0.05)) and highly diffused drop shadows. This encapsulates the items cleanly without drawing attention to the container itself. The filter taxonomy at the top utilizes pill-shaped toggles, which is highly applicable to Vinted HQ's sniper parameter configurations (Settings.tsx).
2. Image 2 (Modal Workflows): This reference highlights a template selection modal floating above a muted, neutral gray background. The modal itself is pure white with dramatic, smooth corner rounding. The active selection state is denoted by a crisp, high-contrast blue border (#1A73E8 or similar) and a matching blue icon. This indicates that interactive states in an airy UI should rely on sharp, distinct color changes rather than the diffused neon glows currently utilized in the Vinted HQ dark theme.
3. Image 3 (Asset Management): Featuring a light gray sidebar (#F9F9F9) juxtaposed against a pure white main content area, this layout creates an immediate spatial hierarchy. The subtle contrast between the navigation plane and the working plane allows the user to intuitively understand the application's structure. The cards feature a gradient overlay at the bottom to ensure text legibility over unpredictable images—a technique essential for Vinted HQ's FeedItemCard components, which display unstandardized user-uploaded apparel photos.
4. Image 4 (CRM Organization): This reference is highly pertinent to the CRM requirements of Vinted HQ. It manages a massive amount of data (contact details, deal pipelines, email sequences) by strictly compartmentalizing information into discrete, rounded white panels nested within a very light gray canvas. The typography relies heavily on font weight variations rather than size variations to establish hierarchy, keeping the layout compact yet breathable.
5. Image 5 (Workflow Automation): Depicting a node-based logic builder, this image reinforces the use of an off-white background to reduce eye strain when looking at complex routing diagrams. The nodes are stark white with distinct, thin borders. This visual logic should be applied to Vinted HQ's sniper rule creation and checkout orchestration flows, presenting complex automation steps as clean, understandable blocks.
6. Image 6 & 7 (Setup and Inbox Interfaces): These references showcase a sophisticated blend of typography and subtle color blocking. A pale lavender top banner introduces a calming accent color without overpowering the workspace. The floating action menus exhibit a refined translucency, pointing directly toward the application of Liquid Glass for secondary navigation elements. The typography blends an authoritative, slightly larger serif or Display font for primary headers with a highly legible geometric sans-serif for the dense data tables.
7. Image 8 (Analytics Dashboard): The final reference provides the blueprint for Vinted HQ's Logs.tsx and data visualization requirements. The background is an elevated neutral. The charts eschew heavy grid lines in favor of minimalist data representation, utilizing soft green gradients that anchor to the x-axis, creating a grounded, calm presentation of potentially volatile performance data (e.g., proxy latency, polling frequency).
Synthesizing the 2026 Enterprise Aesthetic
The amalgamation of these references aligns perfectly with documented 2025/2026 enterprise software design trends. The overarching theme is the departure from "flat design" and "neumorphism" toward "Elevated Neutrals" and "Post-Neumorphism".2 This involves using soft, organic off-whites to reduce the harshness of pure #FFFFFF, combined with strategic depth introduced via physically plausible shadows and advanced translucency (Liquid Glass).2
Furthermore, these interfaces prioritize "content over chrome." The UI elements themselves (borders, backgrounds, panels) are stripped of unnecessary decoration, allowing the data—which, in Vinted HQ's case, includes rapid e-commerce listings, database logs, and automation statuses—to command the user's attention.
3. Color Token Engineering: The Off-White Spectrum
The foundation of an open, airy UI is its base color palette. Transitioning from the legacy dark mode requires completely re-engineering the centralized design tokens located in src/theme.ts. Pure white (#FFFFFF), while clean, reflects maximum light and can cause asthenopia (eye strain) during prolonged enterprise usage, particularly for users monitoring live feeds for hours.2
Modern design systems for productivity applications mandate "Elevated Neutrals"—palettes built around soft greys, warm sand, and oatmeal beige.2 These off-white tones soften the visual load and create a sense of psychological comfort, which is critical when the user is engaged in high-stakes retail arbitrage.
Defining the Base Palette
To achieve the desired spatial and calm aesthetic, the background tokens must utilize warm, desaturated off-whites. The hex code #FAF9F6, for instance, introduces a microscopic splash of yellow to pure white, neutralizing its sterility while maintaining a connotation of clarity and focus.8 Another highly effective spectrum is the "Quiet Linen" palette, which utilizes #F7F3EE as a base, stepping down through #E6DED4 for elevated surfaces, and utilizing #1F1D1B for primary text.9
The application's structural colors must be redefined as follows to match the reference images:


Semantic Token
	Proposed Hex Value
	Rationale and Application Context
	colors.bgBase
	#F9F9F9 or #F5F5F5
	The absolute bottom layer of the application body. A cool, very light gray creates depth when white cards are placed on top. Matches the Air and Dovetail reference backgrounds.10
	colors.bgElevated
	#FFFFFF
	Used for primary floating panels, FeedItemCard components, and modals to create a "pop" against the off-white base.
	colors.surface
	#F0EFEB
	Used for secondary containers, resting input fields, or nested areas within Settings.tsx to group related controls without adding heavy borders.
	colors.textPrimary
	#111111 or #1F1D1B
	Near-black for maximum contrast and legibility on light backgrounds. Avoids the jarring optical vibration of pure #000000 on white.9
	colors.textSecondary
	#575B5F or #6B625B
	For metadata, timestamps in Logs.tsx, and secondary configuration descriptions in Settings.tsx.
	colors.textMuted
	#A3A3A3
	For disabled states, empty states, and placeholder text inside form inputs.
	colors.separator
	rgba(0,0,0,0.06)
	Extremely subtle demarcation lines between list items and table rows, ensuring the UI remains airy and uncluttered.
	Redefining Focal Accents and Interactive States
In a predominantly neutral, off-white environment, interactive elements must possess clear affordances without relying on the heavy glowing effects present in the legacy dark theme. The current application utilizes a vibrant indigo (#818cf8) as its primary accent.1 This hue remains highly effective in a light-mode context, providing a strategic color pop that guides the user's attention (e.g., the "Buy Now" button in Feed.tsx) without overwhelming the senses.5
However, the interaction states must be updated. Instead of utilizing box-shadow: 0 0 12px rgba(129, 140, 248, 0.25) for focus states 1, the airy UI should rely on crisp, structural indicators. When a user focuses on a proxy input or sniper keyword field, the input should transition to a pure white background with a sharp, 2px solid indigo border (#6366F1), mirroring the precision seen in the Dovetail modal reference.


  



4. Optical Physics in the DOM: The Liquid Glass Architecture
A central requirement for the Vinted HQ redesign is the integration of "Liquid Glass" for panels and tile backgrounds. It is imperative from an engineering perspective to distinguish true Liquid Glass from its stylistic predecessor, Glassmorphism.
Standard Glassmorphism—which the application currently utilizes via basic CSS declarations like rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.03) and backdrop-filter: blur(24px) 1—relies solely on translucent surfaces, a uniform frosted blur, and soft z-index layering.6 While effective for separating planes, it remains a "flat" effect.
Liquid Glass, heavily popularized in recent OS-level design languages (e.g., iOS 26, VisionOS), introduces physically plausible optical effects: specifically refraction and specular reflection.6 It does not merely blur the background; it dynamically bends and distorts the content beneath it along the curved edges of the UI element, while simultaneously rendering a glossy, light-catching rim (specular highlight) that responds to the context of the underlying colors.6
Technical Implementation of Refraction
Achieving true Liquid Glass refraction in a web or Electron environment cannot be accomplished natively with standard CSS backdrop-filter: blur() alone. The refraction effect—where the background image appears shifted or warped as if viewed through a physical glass lens—requires the utilization of Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) filters applied directly via CSS.6
The physics of refraction dictate that light alters its trajectory when passing through mediums of different densities. To simulate this computationally within the React DOM, the architecture must generate a displacement map. This is a secondary image or a mathematically generated noise map that dictates precisely how the pixels of the background layer should shift on the X and Y axes.6
The implementation strategy requires injecting an inline SVG filter definition into the root of the React application (e.g., within index.html or at the top of App.tsx). This filter is then referenced by the CSS tokens applied to the UI panels.
The required SVG filter structure comprises three primitives:
1. Source Blurring: A slight <feGaussianBlur> is applied to the SourceGraphic (or BackgroundImage) to represent the frosted, diffuse nature of the glass material.
2. Displacement Mapping: The critical <feDisplacementMap> primitive utilizes an input map (often generated via <feTurbulence> for organic distortion or a predefined geometric map for precise edge bending) to warp the blurred background. This creates the powerful illusion of volumetric thickness at the edges of panels.6
3. Compositing: The <feBlend> primitive is then used to overlay the specular highlights and the base tint onto the refracted background.17
Engineering Specular Highlights via CSS
While the SVG filter handles the complex refraction, the specular highlights—the bright, shiny edges seen on physical glass when light hits it at grazing angles—can be achieved directly through CSS. This involves the precise orchestration of multiple inset box shadows and highly translucent borders to simulate light casting and depth separation.13
To construct the Liquid Glass token for a light-mode off-white background, replacing the legacy glassPanel 1, the following CSS architecture is required:


CSS




/* The Base Liquid Glass Container */
.liquid-glass-panel {
 position: relative;
 /* Base translucency allowing the off-white background and feed items to bleed through */
 background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.45); 
 
 /* Standard blur combined with heavy saturation to keep underlying colors vivid, 
    acting as a fallback if the SVG filter fails to render */
 backdrop-filter: blur(16px) saturate(180%);
 -webkit-backdrop-filter: blur(16px) saturate(180%);
 
 /* The physical edge of the glass */
 border-radius: 24px;
 border: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.85);
 
 /* External drop shadow for elevation, inset shadow for volumetric illumination */
 box-shadow: 
   0 12px 32px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.04), 
   inset 0 4px 20px rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.7),
   inset 0 -1px 2px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.02);
   
 overflow: hidden;
}

/* The Specular Highlight Pseudo-Element */
.liquid-glass-panel::after {
 content: '';
 position: absolute;
 inset: 0;
 border-radius: inherit;
 
 /* Simulating directional light bouncing off the top and left edges */
 box-shadow: 
   inset 2px 2px 4px rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.95),
   inset -1px -1px 2px rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.4);
   
 /* Essential: ensure this layer does not block mouse events for underlying buttons */
 pointer-events: none;
 z-index: 1;
}

When integrating the advanced SVG displacement map, the CSS backdrop-filter property is updated to reference the SVG filter ID: backdrop-filter: url(#liquid-glass-refraction) blur(16px).6
This effect should be applied strategically. It is profoundly impactful when applied to the macro-layout elements, such as the fixed sidebar in App.tsx and modal overlays. As users scroll the high-density grid of product images in the Feed, the items will slide underneath the translucent sidebar. The refraction effect will distort the product images as they pass underneath, creating the lively, contextual experience that defines modern premium interfaces.14


  



5. Spatial Orchestration, Grid Rhythms, and Shape Semantics
An "airy" interface is not achieved merely by changing the background color to white or slapping transparency onto elements; it is achieved through the rigorous, mathematical application of spatial systems. White space (negative space) is an active, functional design tool. It improves readability, creates focus, and makes the complex logic of automation software feel approachable.19
Implementing the 8-Point Grid System
Enterprise applications, particularly those managing unpredictable data strings (like varying Vinted listing titles or error logs), require a strict spacing system to maintain visual rhythm. The implementation must universally adopt an 8-point grid system.19 In this paradigm, all margins, paddings, component dimensions, and line heights are multiples of 8 (e.g., 8px, 16px, 24px, 32px).
The current theme.ts file defines a spacing object ranging from xs (4px) to 4xl (40px).1 While this foundational structure exists, its application must be altered to increase the perception of space, effectively widening the layout.
* Macro Space (Structural Gaps): The distances between discrete sections must be increased. In Settings.tsx, the Section component currently utilizes marginBottom: spacing.xl (which corresponds to a tighter layout).1 To enhance the airy feel, this macro-spacing should be expanded to spacing['2xl'] (32px) or 3xl (40px) to clearly separate configuration domains (e.g., separating Proxy Settings from Sniper Rules).
* Micro Space (Component Padding): The internal padding within elements determines how cramped the data feels. The FeedItemCard components 1 must utilize generous internal padding, such as padding: spacing.lg (16px) or spacing.xl (24px). This ensures that text strings, prices, and condition tags do not crowd the liquid glass borders, allowing the typography to breathe.
Shape Semantics: The Psychology of Rounded Corners
The user prompt explicitly requests "nicely rounded corners," a defining feature of all provided reference images (Dovetail, Mobbin, Air). Heavy corner rounding (border radiuses between 12px and 24px) is a hallmark of modern 2026 UI trends.
Psychologically, sharp 90-degree corners are processed by the human brain as potentially hazardous or aggressive, demanding higher cognitive processing to track the visual path. Rounded corners, conversely, guide the eye smoothly inward toward the center of the element, facilitating easier processing of the contained information.
The application's theme.ts must update its radius object. The glassPanel standard radius should be increased from its legacy value to 20px or 24px. Buttons and inputs (glassInput, btnPrimary) should mirror this softness, moving away from tight 4px radiuses to fully pill-shaped (9999px) or heavily rounded (12px) geometries.1
Re-engineering the Layout Structure in App.tsx
The application's structural spine is defined in App.tsx, featuring a fixed sidebar with a width defined by the constant SIDEBAR_WIDTH (220px). In the legacy design, this sidebar utilizes a dark background (rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.02)) with a deep blur.
To adapt this structure to the new light-mode paradigm while maintaining spatial distinctness, the layout must be re-anchored.


CSS




/* Proposed Light Mode Sidebar Structure */
.sidebar {
 width: 240px; /* Slightly wider for an airier feel */
 position: fixed;
 height: 100vh;
 /* Acting as the primary Liquid Glass anchor */
 background: rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.6);
 backdrop-filter: blur(40px) saturate(150%);
 border-right: 1px solid rgba(255, 255, 255, 0.9);
 box-shadow: 1px 0 12px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.03);
 z-index: 100;
}

.main-content {
 margin-left: 240px;
 background-color: #FAF9F6; /* The base elevated neutral */
 min-height: 100vh;
}

By ensuring the background of the main content area is the base #FAF9F6 and the sidebar is a highly translucent Liquid Glass layer, the layout creates a profound sense of depth and openness, directly mirroring the elegant spatial arrangement seen in the Air and Intercom reference images.
6. Typographic Systems for High-Density CRM Data
Typography in enterprise productivity applications dictates the speed at which a user can parse information, scan logs, and verify automation statuses. The current Vinted HQ application imports the 'Inter' font family across weights ranging from 300 to 700.1
Inter is an objectively exceptional choice for UI design; it was explicitly engineered for computer screens, featuring a large x-height that maximizes legibility at small sizes.21 Retaining Inter as the primary structural font is highly recommended. However, its application must be strictly disciplined. A common failure in enterprise dashboards is the "density disjoint problem," where an excessive variety of font sizes is used, creating visual chaos and destroying the reading flow.22
Establishing Hierarchy Through Weight and Contrast
To maintain an airy aesthetic while displaying massive amounts of data (such as the JSON payloads in Logs.tsx or the complex configurations in Settings.tsx 1), the typography system should rely on weight and contrast rather than drastic shifts in size.12
* Primary Data Points (e.g., Prices, Item IDs, Sniper Status): Use Inter SemiBold (600) or Bold (700) paired with colors.textPrimary (#111111). This anchors the user's eye immediately to the most critical information, allowing for rapid scanning during high-speed sniping operations.12
* Body Copy & Table Cells: Use Inter Regular (400) paired with a slightly softer contrast, such as colors.textSecondary (#575B5F). Pure black on pure white causes severe eye strain over long sessions; using a dark gray softens the reading experience.12
* Metadata & Labels: Use Inter Medium (500) paired with colors.textMuted (#A3A3A3) and slightly increased letter-spacing (e.g., letter-spacing: 0.02em). This provides an open, airy feel to secondary information without demanding attention.12
* Avoid Light Weights: It is critical to avoid using Light (300) for any text under 18px. Thin strokes suffer from poor readability on light backgrounds, causing the user to squint and breaking the sense of calm.12
Typographic Pairings for Premium Utility
While Inter serves perfectly as a workhorse UI font for the data grids, introducing a secondary typeface for primary section headers (sectionTitle in Settings.tsx 1, or the main application headers) can elevate the software from a utilitarian tool to a premium enterprise suite, similar to the Intercom setup wizard reference.
Modern, trend-forward pairings for 2025/2026 often mix a highly structured, clean geometric sans-serif or a soft serif with the functional body font.28
* Pairing Option 1: Montserrat (Headers) & Inter (Body). Montserrat provides wide, geometric, and authoritative letterforms that look exceptional in light mode. This adds a layer of architectural stability above the dense Inter data tables.29
* Pairing Option 2: Manrope (Headers) & Inter (Body). Manrope is clear, rounded, and low-friction. It is highly suited for fintech and productivity UIs where a sense of approachability is desired alongside technical precision.29
Implementing Manrope for the <h2> and <h3> tags while maintaining Inter for the <td>, <input>, and <p> elements will subtly reinforce the "airy" and "inviting" mandate of the redesign.
7. Component-Level Translation Strategy
The transition from the legacy dark mode to the Liquid Glass light mode requires methodical refactoring of specific components within the React architecture. The goal is to ensure they handle the complex functionalities of the Vinted automation system without looking cluttered.
The Feed View Architecture (Feed.tsx)
The Feed.tsx component is the operational heart of the application. It renders a responsive CSS grid (gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(auto-fill, minmax(220px, 1fr))') of FeedItemCard elements, constantly updated via IPC events from the Python polling loop.1 In the legacy dark mode, these cards are delineated by bright borders and heavy glow effects upon hover.
In the new architecture, the grid remains, but the cards themselves must shed their harsh borders. The FeedItemCard container should utilize the optimized Liquid Glass CSS token.
1. Default State: The card rests on the #FAF9F6 background with a highly transparent glass background (rgba(255,255,255,0.4)) and a delicate drop shadow (0 4px 24px rgba(0,0,0,0.03)). The edges are defined almost entirely by the specular highlight inset shadow rather than a solid stroke.13
2. Hover State: Instead of a neon glow, the hover interaction triggers an increase in the glass opacity (becoming slightly more "solid" white) and lifts the card physically via transform: translateY(-4px) with an expanded, softer shadow (0 12px 40px rgba(0,0,0,0.06)). This provides unambiguous feedback that the item is interactable (e.g., ready for the "Buy Now" checkout initiation) without jarring the visual cortex.
3. Image Handling: The product images inside the cards must maintain their strict 1:1 aspect ratio (aspectRatio: '1') and objectFit: 'cover'.1 To integrate smoothly with the airy theme, the images should feature a subtle inner shadow to blend them into the card's glass surface.
Form Elements and Orchestration Settings (Settings.tsx)
Forms are the primary source of visual clutter in enterprise applications. Settings.tsx contains numerous inputs, textareas, and selects for managing API proxies, configuring sniper budget limits, and setting polling intervals.1
Currently, glassInput styles utilize placeholder text in #525c6f and an active focus state defined by an indigo border (rgba(129, 140, 248, 0.5)) and a large glow (rgba(129, 140, 248, 0.15)).1
To transition this to a calm, high-productivity light mode:
* Resting Inputs: Inputs should not appear as stark white boxes surrounded by heavy borders. Instead, they should appear as subtle, recessed channels within the interface. They should feature a very light background tint (e.g., #F0EFEB or rgba(0,0,0,0.03)) with a delicate inset shadow (box-shadow: inset 0 2px 4px rgba(0,0,0,0.02)) and absolutely no dark outer borders.
* Focus State: When a user clicks an input to configure a critical setting (e.g., a sticky residential proxy URL), the input must transition smoothly to command attention. The inset shadow disappears, the background turns pure white (#FFFFFF), and a sharp, 2px solid primary indigo border (#6366F1) is applied. The elimination of the outer glow reduces noise while the sharp color change guarantees focus state accessibility and confidence during data entry.
High-Density Data Tables (Logs.tsx and Purchases.tsx)
Data tables, such as the event logging system and the purchase history tracker, must prioritize scannability above all else. The current glassTable and tableHeader implementations use a 4% white background for headers.1
* Headers: In light mode, headers should be structurally distinct but visually unobtrusive. Use a subtle grey background (#F5F5F5) with Inter SemiBold (600), uppercase styling, and increased letter spacing to separate columns visually. Vertical border lines between columns should be entirely removed to maintain the airy feel.
* Rows: Remove any alternating zebra striping, as it adds unnecessary cognitive noise. Instead, rely on generous row height (e.g., a minimum of 48px) and a nearly invisible bottom border (1px solid rgba(0,0,0,0.04)) to separate chronological log entries or purchase records.
* Status Badges: The badge helper currently maps statuses (success, error, warning) to dark background variants. In the new paradigm, utilize pale, high-lightness pastel backgrounds with highly saturated text. For example, a successful checkout status in Purchases.tsx should use a background of #ECFDF5 (pale mint) with text in #059669 (deep emerald). This communicates status instantly via color theory without the badge dominating the row's visual hierarchy.


  



8. Electron Performance Constraints and Accessibility Paradigms
While the aesthetic pivot to Liquid Glass and an airy off-white palette solves the cognitive load issues associated with dark mode, it introduces non-trivial engineering challenges regarding accessibility compliance and Electron application performance. The architectural design must reconcile these issues to ensure the application remains a high-performance utility.
Resolving the Contrast Paradox in Liquid Glass
The primary critique of advanced glassmorphism and Liquid Glass is its inherent potential to fail Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) color contrast requirements.31 Because the background behind a Liquid Glass panel is variable (it dynamically blurs whatever content, images, or data tables are scrolled underneath it), the contrast ratio between the text rendered on the glass and the perceived color of the glass itself fluctuates. If a dark product image slides under a translucent panel holding dark text, the contrast ratio may dip below the required 4.5:1 minimum for standard text.18
To programmatically solve this within the Vinted HQ architecture:
1. Opaque Text Layers: Text elements must never be subjected to CSS transparency or blending modes. They must remain rendered as solid #111111 or #1F1D1B.34
2. Controlled Luminosity via CSS: The Liquid Glass CSS implementation must include a brightness() or saturate() filter operated in tandem with the backdrop blur. By enforcing a minimum brightness floor (e.g., backdrop-filter: blur(16px) brightness(1.2) saturate(1.5)), the design engine ensures that even if a pure black image scrolls beneath the glass, the resulting blurred panel remains light enough to support dark text legibility.35
3. The Shadow Lift Technique: For critical numerical data—such as the item price in Feed.tsx or countdown timers generated by sniperService.ts—applying a microscopic, nearly transparent white text-shadow (text-shadow: 0 1px 0 rgba(255,255,255,0.9)) physically lifts the dark text off the translucent background. This ensures crisp, readable edges regardless of the refracted colors occurring beneath the text.34
The mathematical necessity of this approach is dictated by the relative luminance formula used by WCAG:
  

Where    is the relative luminance of the lighter color (the resulting Liquid Glass surface) and    is the luminance of the darker color (the typography). By strictly controlling the floor of    via CSS brightness filters, the architecture guarantees a    across all dynamic states.
Performance Engineering in the Electron Runtime
The target application is an Electron-based desktop application utilizing Vite, React, and TypeScript.1 While Electron operates on the powerful Chromium rendering engine, simultaneously rendering complex SVG displacement maps (<feDisplacementMap>) and large-area backdrop blurs across a highly dynamic grid of hundreds of items (driven by the Feed.tsx polling loop) will inevitably cause severe GPU bottlenecking, layout thrashing, and frame-rate drops.34
The application relies heavily on the Python Bridge (vinted_client.py) executing rapid, stealth HTTP requests via curl_cffi to bypass Cloudflare and Datadome protections. It performs complex image mutations for relisting, evaluates sniper rule heuristics, and manages multi-step checkout state machines (build -> delivery -> payment) concurrently. The UI must not compete with these background processes for systemic resources.
To maintain the high-speed utility required by an e-commerce sniping tool, the UI architecture must implement graceful degradation of the Liquid Glass effects:
* Selective Application of Refraction: True Liquid Glass (incorporating the heavy SVG refraction map + blur + specular highlights) must be strictly reserved for static, macro-layout elements that cover large areas but do not move frequently. This includes the main Sidebar (App.tsx), Modal overlays, and sticky Header bars.18
* Optimized Rendering for Data Grids: For the individual FeedItemCard elements, which render in extremely high volume and are constantly subjected to scrolling repaints, the application should fall back to an optimized standard CSS Glassmorphism. This entails using pure backdrop-filter: blur() and CSS border layers, entirely omitting the expensive SVG <feDisplacementMap> refraction layer.6 This hybrid approach preserves the premium, airy aesthetic globally while guaranteeing a strict 60fps scrolling performance, ensuring the UI remains responsive during critical automation events.
By combining Elevated Neutrals, rigorous spatial systems, and optimized Liquid Glass rendering, the Vinted HQ application will transform from an aggressive, high-friction terminal into a calm, focused, and highly performant enterprise workspace.
Works cited
1. finlayjack89/vinted-hq
2. UI Color Trends to Watch in 2026 - Updivision, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://updivision.com/blog/post/ui-color-trends-to-watch-in-2026
3. UI Design Trends You Will See Everywhere in 2026 | by AcmeMinds - Medium, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://medium.com/@ampldm2025/ui-design-trends-you-will-see-everywhere-in-2026-1aef9a9d2736
4. Top 15 Minimalist Color Palettes for Creative Projects With HEX Codes, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://filmora.wondershare.com/video-creative-tips/minimalist-color-palette.html
5. 8 UI design trends we're seeing in 2025 - Pixelmatters, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.pixelmatters.com/insights/8-ui-design-trends-2025
6. How to create Liquid Glass effects with CSS and SVG - LogRocket Blog, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://blog.logrocket.com/how-create-liquid-glass-effects-css-and-svg/
7. Modern App Colors: Design Palettes That Work In 2026 - WebOsmotic, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://webosmotic.com/blog/modern-app-colors/
8. Off White RGB, CMYK, HEX Color Codes and Color Meaning - VistaCreate, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://create.vista.com/colors/color-names/off-white/
9. Minimalist Color Palette Ideas (20 Picks + Hex) - Media.io, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.media.io/color-palette/minimalist-color-palette.html
10. Everything about the color Off White - Canva, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.canva.com/colors/color-meanings/off-white/
11. Offwhite Color Palettes - Coolors, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://coolors.co/palettes/popular/offwhite
12. Mastering Typography Hierarchy: Guiding the User's Eye through Design | by JIMOH UMAR, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://medium.com/@umar1jimoh/mastering-typography-hierarchy-guiding-the-users-eye-through-design-d7ae90ffcb34
13. Recreating Apple's Liquid Glass Effect with Pure CSS - DEV Community, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://dev.to/kevinbism/recreating-apples-liquid-glass-effect-with-pure-css-3gpl
14. Apple introduces a delightful and elegant new software design, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.apple.com/newsroom/2025/06/apple-introduces-a-delightful-and-elegant-new-software-design/
15. Liquid Glass in CSS (and SVG) | ekino-france - Medium, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://medium.com/ekino-france/liquid-glass-in-css-and-svg-839985fcb88d
16. Liquid Glass in CSS (and SVG) - Ekino FR, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.ekino.fr/publications/liquid-glass-in-css-and-svg/
17. Liquid Glass in the Browser: Refraction with CSS and SVG — kube.io, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://kube.io/blog/liquid-glass-css-svg/
18. Getting Clarity on Apple's Liquid Glass - CSS-Tricks, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://css-tricks.com/getting-clarity-on-apples-liquid-glass/
19. Spacing & Alignment in UI: Creating Visual Rhythm and Breathing Room | by Ayush S. Mathur | Design Systems Collective, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.designsystemscollective.com/spacing-alignment-in-ui-creating-visual-rhythm-and-breathing-room-2c382b112272
20. Spacing methods - Material Design, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://m2.material.io/design/layout/spacing-methods.html
21. Inter Font Combinations & Similar Fonts - Typewolf, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.typewolf.com/inter
22. Dashboard Design UX Patterns Best Practices - Pencil & Paper, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.pencilandpaper.io/articles/ux-pattern-analysis-data-dashboards
23. Typography Tips - A lesson on contrast - Process Masterclass, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.process-masterclass.com/typography-tips-a-lesson-on-contrast
24. Design Matters #9 - What The Font?! In Practice! - Data Rocks, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.datarocks.co.nz/post/design-matters-9-what-the-font-in-practice
25. Font Weight in Typography: Hierarchy & Contrast - Fontfabric, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.fontfabric.com/blog/typography-knowledge-weight-typography/
26. Principles of Typography in UI Design | by Bryson M. | Medium | UX Planet, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://uxplanet.org/principles-of-typography-in-ui-design-bc28f1f9666d
27. Typography | Apple Developer Documentation, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/typography
28. Best google font pairings for UI design in 2025 | by Matt Medley | Bootcamp - Medium, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://medium.com/design-bootcamp/best-google-font-pairings-for-ui-design-in-2025-ba8d006aa03d
29. Best Google Font Pairings for UI Design in 2025 | Matt Medley, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://medley.ltd/blog/best-google-font-pairings-for-ui-design-in-2025/
30. What Fonts Go With Inter? - BonFX, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://bonfx.com/what-fonts-go-with-inter/
31. How do you implement accessible linear design across light and dark modes?, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://blog.logrocket.com/how-do-you-implement-accessible-linear-design-across-light-and-dark-modes/
32. How to make Glassmorphism more accessible | by Aimee | Bootcamp - Medium, accessed on March 12, 2026, http://medium.com/design-bootcamp/how-to-make-glassmorphism-more-accessible-9121d816004c
33. Glassmorphism Meets Accessibility: Can Glass Be Inclusive? | Axess Lab, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://axesslab.com/glassmorphism-meets-accessibility-can-frosted-glass-be-inclusive/
34. 12 Glassmorphism UI Features, Best Practices, and Examples - UX Pilot, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://uxpilot.ai/blogs/glassmorphism-ui
35. Materials | Apple Developer Documentation, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/materials
36. Liquid Glass in the Browser: Refraction with CSS and SVG | Hacker News, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45174297
37. What is Glassmorphism: Principles, Practices & Examples | Ramotion Agency, accessed on March 12, 2026, https://www.ramotion.com/blog/what-is-glassmorphism/